README.md, before:

# Ack Bash Completion

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD014 -->

Experimental tab completion for [ack](http://beyondgrep.com/), the CLI tool going beyond `grep`.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Usage

```bash
$ ack -<tab>
--actionscript
--ada
--after-context
--asm
--asp
--aspx
--bar
--batch
--bazel
--before-context
--break
--cathy
--cc
--cfmx
--clojure
--cmake
--coffeescript
--color
--color-colno
--color-filename
--color-lineno
--color-match
--column
--conf
--context
--count
--cpp
--csharp
--css
--dart
--delphi
--dump
--elisp
--elixir
--elm
--env
--erlang
--files-with-matches
--files-without-matches
--filter
--flush
--follow
--fortran
--go
--groovy
--group
--gsp
--haskell
--heading
--help
--help-colors
--help-rgb-colors
--help-types
--hh
--hpp
--html
--ignore-case
--ignore-dir
--ignore-directory
--ignore-file-r
--invert-match
--jade
--java
--js
--json
--jsp
--known-types
--kotlin
--less
--lisp
--literal
--lua
--make
--man
--markdown
--match
--matlab
--mojo
--no-filename
--no-ignore-case
--no-recurse
--nobreak
--nocolor
--nocolumn
--noenv
--nofilter
--nofollow
--nogroup
--noheading
--noignore-dir
--noignore-directory
--nopager
--nosmart-case
--nounderline
--objc
--objcpp
--ocaml
--output
--pager
--passthru
--pconf
--perl
--perltest
--php
--plone
--pod
--print0
--proximate
--purescript
--python
--rake
--range-end
--range-start
--recurse
--rr
--rst
--ruby
--rust
--sass
--scala
--scheme
--shell
--show-types
--smalltalk
--smart-case
--smarty
--sort-files
--sql
--stylus
--svg
--swift
--tcl
--tex
--thpppt
--toml
--ts
--ttml
--type
--underline
--vb
--verilog
--version
--vhdl
--vim
--with-filename
--word-regexp
--xml
--yaml
-1
-A
-B
-c
-C
-f
-g
-h
-H
-i
-I
-k
-l
-L
-n
-o
-p
-Q
-R
-s
-S
-t
-T
-v
-w
-x
```

It also supports definitions from your `$HOME/.ackrc`, so the above list might look different in your local environment.

The example `ackrc` based on [my TIL](https://github.com/jonasbn/til/blob/master/ack/define_a_custom_search_filetype_scope.md)

```ini
--type-set=mojo=.css,.pl,.pm,.html,.js,.tt,.ep,.conf
--type-set=conf=.conf
--type-set=conf=.pconf
```

Would work as follows, listing your custom types among ALL of the other options:

```bash
$ ack -<tab>
--mojo --conf --pconf
```

```bash
$ ack <tab>
.editorconfig                          CONTRIBUTING.md                        bash_completion_ack.code-workspace
.git/                                  LICENSE                                bash_completion_ack.sublime-project
.gitattributes                         README.md                              bash_completion_ack.sublime-workspace
.gitignore                             ack
```

List contents of directory as default for `bash`.

If you _tab_ after your completion has been made the contents of the current directory is displayed:

```bash
$ ack --mojo <tab>
.editorconfig                          CONTRIBUTING.md                        bash_completion_ack.code-workspace
.git/                                  LICENSE                                bash_completion_ack.sublime-project
.gitattributes                         README.md                              bash_completion_ack.sublime-workspace
.gitignore                             ack
```

## Download

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jonasbn/bash_completion_ack/master/ack > ack
```

## Installation

When downloaded you have to install the completion implementation. Where your completions are located might vary.

### Personal

If you want to install them for your personal use, do the following.

Create the file: `~/.bash_completion`, containing the code below:

```bash
for bcfile in ~/.bash_completion.d/* ; do
  . $bcfile
done
```

Ref: [ServerFault.com: _Standard place for user defined bash_completion.d scripts?_](https://serverfault.com/questions/506612/standard-place-for-user-defined-bash-completion-d-scripts)

Create a directiory for your completions:

```bash
mkdir ~/.bash_completion.d
```

Copy your completions into the newly created directory:

```bash
cp ack ~/.bash_completion.d/
```

Start a new shell and you should be good to go.

### System-wide example from Debian

Based on [an introduction](https://debian-administration.org/article/316/An_introduction_to_bash_completion_part_1) to `bash` completions on Debian.

```bash
sudo cp ack /etc/bash_completion.d/
```

### System-wide example from OSX

This assumes you are using **Homebrew**

Do note that paths vary based on whether you are using `bash` 3 or 4

#### `bash` 3 (Formula: `bash-completions`)

```bash
cp ack /usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/
```

And to activate right away:

```bash
source  /usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/ack
```

#### `bash` 4 (Formula: `bash-completions2`)

```bash
cp ack /usr/local/share/bash-completion/completions/
```

And to activate right away:

```bash
source /usr/local/share/bash-completion/completions/ack
```

## Motivation

The programmatic capabilities discovered while implementing my first `bash` completions intriqued me. This is a highly experimental feature, which nevertheless was lots of fun to implement.

## History

- 2.2.0
  - Major contribution from @rpgoldman expanding the capabilities of this tool extensively

- 2.1.0
  - Minor adjustment to behaviour, post completions, the contents of the current directory is listed

- 2.0.0
  - Initial version working with `bash` version 4.
  - Change to behaviour, `-` have to be entered for detected options to be listed

- 1.0.0
  - Initial version working with `bash` version 3.

## See Also

A more elaborate piece of documentation on `bash` completions is available from **The Linux Documentation Project** in the [Advanced Bash-Scripting Guide](http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/tabexpansion.html).

From the [GNU Documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Programmable-Completion.html).

Please note that this experimental implementation has only been tested with `bash` version 3 (see version 1.0.0).

Versions after version 1.0.0 have been tested with `bash` version 4.

The most comprehensive collection of `bash` completions I have come across is [the one](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion) from the **Debian Linux distribution**. It is also the one offered for OSX via **Homebrew**.

## License

This is made available under the MIT license, see separate license file.

## Copyright

:copyright: jonasbn 2016-2022

Commit message:

Added mention of latest release 2.2.1

README.md, after:

# Ack Bash Completion

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD014 -->

Experimental tab completion for [ack](http://beyondgrep.com/), the CLI tool going beyond `grep`.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Usage

```bash
$ ack -<tab>
--actionscript
--ada
--after-context
--asm
--asp
--aspx
--bar
--batch
--bazel
--before-context
--break
--cathy
--cc
--cfmx
--clojure
--cmake
--coffeescript
--color
--color-colno
--color-filename
--color-lineno
--color-match
--column
--conf
--context
--count
--cpp
--csharp
--css
--dart
--delphi
--dump
--elisp
--elixir
--elm
--env
--erlang
--files-with-matches
--files-without-matches
--filter
--flush
--follow
--fortran
--go
--groovy
--group
--gsp
--haskell
--heading
--help
--help-colors
--help-rgb-colors
--help-types
--hh
--hpp
--html
--ignore-case
--ignore-dir
--ignore-directory
--ignore-file-r
--invert-match
--jade
--java
--js
--json
--jsp
--known-types
--kotlin
--less
--lisp
--literal
--lua
--make
--man
--markdown
--match
--matlab
--mojo
--no-filename
--no-ignore-case
--no-recurse
--nobreak
--nocolor
--nocolumn
--noenv
--nofilter
--nofollow
--nogroup
--noheading
--noignore-dir
--noignore-directory
--nopager
--nosmart-case
--nounderline
--objc
--objcpp
--ocaml
--output
--pager
--passthru
--pconf
--perl
--perltest
--php
--plone
--pod
--print0
--proximate
--purescript
--python
--rake
--range-end
--range-start
--recurse
--rr
--rst
--ruby
--rust
--sass
--scala
--scheme
--shell
--show-types
--smalltalk
--smart-case
--smarty
--sort-files
--sql
--stylus
--svg
--swift
--tcl
--tex
--thpppt
--toml
--ts
--ttml
--type
--underline
--vb
--verilog
--version
--vhdl
--vim
--with-filename
--word-regexp
--xml
--yaml
-1
-A
-B
-c
-C
-f
-g
-h
-H
-i
-I
-k
-l
-L
-n
-o
-p
-Q
-R
-s
-S
-t
-T
-v
-w
-x
```

It also supports definitions from your `$HOME/.ackrc`, so the above list might look different in your local environment.

The example `ackrc` based on [my TIL](https://github.com/jonasbn/til/blob/master/ack/define_a_custom_search_filetype_scope.md)

```ini
--type-set=mojo=.css,.pl,.pm,.html,.js,.tt,.ep,.conf
--type-set=conf=.conf
--type-set=conf=.pconf
```

Would work as follows, listing your custom types among ALL of the other options:

```bash
$ ack -<tab>
--mojo --conf --pconf
```

```bash
$ ack <tab>
.editorconfig                          CONTRIBUTING.md                        bash_completion_ack.code-workspace
.git/                                  LICENSE                                bash_completion_ack.sublime-project
.gitattributes                         README.md                              bash_completion_ack.sublime-workspace
.gitignore                             ack
```

List contents of directory as default for `bash`.

If you _tab_ after your completion has been made the contents of the current directory is displayed:

```bash
$ ack --mojo <tab>
.editorconfig                          CONTRIBUTING.md                        bash_completion_ack.code-workspace
.git/                                  LICENSE                                bash_completion_ack.sublime-project
.gitattributes                         README.md                              bash_completion_ack.sublime-workspace
.gitignore                             ack
```

## Download

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jonasbn/bash_completion_ack/master/ack > ack
```

## Installation

When downloaded you have to install the completion implementation. Where your completions are located might vary.

### Personal

If you want to install them for your personal use, do the following.

Create the file: `~/.bash_completion`, containing the code below:

```bash
for bcfile in ~/.bash_completion.d/* ; do
  . $bcfile
done
```

Ref: [ServerFault.com: _Standard place for user defined bash_completion.d scripts?_](https://serverfault.com/questions/506612/standard-place-for-user-defined-bash-completion-d-scripts)

Create a directiory for your completions:

```bash
mkdir ~/.bash_completion.d
```

Copy your completions into the newly created directory:

```bash
cp ack ~/.bash_completion.d/
```

Start a new shell and you should be good to go.

### System-wide example from Debian

Based on [an introduction](https://debian-administration.org/article/316/An_introduction_to_bash_completion_part_1) to `bash` completions on Debian.

```bash
sudo cp ack /etc/bash_completion.d/
```

### System-wide example from OSX

This assumes you are using **Homebrew**

Do note that paths vary based on whether you are using `bash` 3 or 4

#### `bash` 3 (Formula: `bash-completions`)

```bash
cp ack /usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/
```

And to activate right away:

```bash
source  /usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/ack
```

#### `bash` 4 (Formula: `bash-completions2`)

```bash
cp ack /usr/local/share/bash-completion/completions/
```

And to activate right away:

```bash
source /usr/local/share/bash-completion/completions/ack
```

## Motivation

The programmatic capabilities discovered while implementing my first `bash` completions intriqued me. This is a highly experimental feature, which nevertheless was lots of fun to implement.

## History

- 2.2.1
  - Bug fix release, addressing issue introduced in 2.2.0, making the defaults not work

- 2.2.0
  - Major contribution from @rpgoldman expanding the capabilities of this tool extensively

- 2.1.0
  - Minor adjustment to behaviour, post completions, the contents of the current directory is listed

- 2.0.0
  - Initial version working with `bash` version 4.
  - Change to behaviour, `-` have to be entered for detected options to be listed

- 1.0.0
  - Initial version working with `bash` version 3.

## See Also

A more elaborate piece of documentation on `bash` completions is available from **The Linux Documentation Project** in the [Advanced Bash-Scripting Guide](http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/tabexpansion.html).

From the [GNU Documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Programmable-Completion.html).

Please note that this experimental implementation has only been tested with `bash` version 3 (see version 1.0.0).

Versions after version 1.0.0 have been tested with `bash` version 4.

The most comprehensive collection of `bash` completions I have come across is [the one](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion) from the **Debian Linux distribution**. It is also the one offered for OSX via **Homebrew**.

## License

This is made available under the MIT license, see separate license file.

## Copyright

:copyright: jonasbn 2016-2022
